A writer, or one who attempts to write, is challenged as it has happened to me - with a vast amount of ideas which were not manifested promptly due to, yet again, a vast amount of reasons which can easily be translatable to a single word: excuses. At having them dwindling along with my conditioned hamster to take it easy, to play it slow, and then to try and make him work again, has found it hard to pick that one initial word which would crack the dam, allowing it´s natural flow, as it once did before stagnating itself into the absurdity of searching for the self. 
Our senses enrich our egos as they are confronted with those of others who, in the end, are simply competing with our own way of seeing things. When all is said and done, the images and the sounds we hear tend to condition our actions. Ultimately, this propels us to act against our own will, or so it would seem. 
If you were to shut your senses in search of what lays within your mind, a logical conclusion, being honest to yourself without - obviously, needing to delve into the other person's ego, you may find yourself lost, searching for your-self. 
It is an absurdity to attempt to understand what lays in the mind when living among others whose lives revolve around acquisitions. Those who worry themselves with other peoples egos and what those may think. It is the opinionated person who stagnates the dam. It is people like me who you need to be aware of. Can you see why?
When those images and sounds enter the mind, questions arise. Sometimes, somehow they are implanted as the nano machines which are being developed. But if you were to shut yourself from the visual and auditive messages, where the majority listens and follows, then you are confronted with a conflictive, dual ideological relationship that disrupts the self. 
Thus, to adapt does not mean to evolve.


I like the analogy you make with the dam and then you touch upon it again later on.  The more analogy you make in an article or story is the best way one can write.  I highlighted the words that are grammatically incorrect or that can be changed to make for easier reading so the reader can understand what you are writing about.  It is difficult to understand where you are going.  The beginning paragraph should set out to relate that you are talking about adapting and evolving, and so the last sentence would have meaning and be more impactful.  
